                                  Reflection


I worked as a Systems Analyst in a variety of industries for over 40 years.
I have a lengthy resume that shows I worked as a consultant to some great
companies, many of which no longer exist.  I have had a presense on LinkedIn
for many years.

As I am retired I cannot say I am facing many challenges on the career front.
I feel that I have served my society well and earned the right to enjoy what
remains of my life.  I feel grateful I am no longer in the rat race, trying to
be all things to all people.

The path I followed in my career was unique and rewarding.  Creating a brand
seems to me to be a sales technique and invites people to be something other
than authentic.  I am especially concerned about Social Media and the way it
seems to push people towards conformance and away from individual expression.

We are truly in unprecedented times where any person can reach any other person
anywhere in the world.  Frankly, the need to have an online presence concerns
me.  I guess it is because the first ten years of my career were in the arena
of military intelligence that I have learned to keep a low profile.

And, I must say upon reflection, all my clients preferred discretion in all
things. The first thing a prospective client wants from me is an NDA before
they even talk to my about the skills they hope I can provide.  It is the
reason you will find my resume is low key.  I get paid to ensure the client can
claim ownership of all I produce.

I am not sure "continuously update and improve your resume and LinkedIn
profile" would have been wise in my situation.  Many of the projects I have
worked on took six months to two years to complete.  During those periods I
would be in violation of my NDA to disclose anything about my current work.
It has always been best for me to wait till a project is complete to write a
summary of my accomplishments.  And, to have my client review and approve my
summary before I publish it.

This idea of using social media or broadcasting my skills is new to me.  I am
sure Emily presented many very good ideas for advancing one's career.  I have
to ponder this for a while to figure out how I can best make use of all this
new information.  I find Emily's talks to be very informative and stimulating.



